OSD-04018

From explorer   Archives(\\Machine)(J:)
 
I have tried several combinations including double and single quotes...   Oracle is running as an admin presently in mounted standby mode.
 
alter system set standby_archive_dest="J:\"
*
ERROR at line 1:
ORA-02097: parameter cannot be modified because specified value is invalid
ORA-16032: parameter STANDBY_ARCHIVE_DEST destination string cannot be translated
ORA-09291: sksachk: invalid device specified for archive destination
OSD-04018: Unable to access the specified directory or device.
O/S-Error: (OS 3) The system cannot find the path specified.
 
 
Hi JoelTry setting it as
alter system set standby_archive_dest="\\Machine\Archives"
 
See Note 337413.1 Cannot Recognize Remote Mapped Drive ORA-09291 [ID 337413.1]
 
Hope this helps
BobB
 
来自 <https://community.oracle.com/thread/3308844>
 
 


Cannot Recognize Remote Mapped Drive ORA-09291 (Doc ID 337413.1)

To Bottom



In this Document

Symptoms

 
Cause
 
Solution


This document is being delivered to you via Oracle Support's Rapid Visibility (RaV) process and therefore has not been subject to an independent technical review.

Applies to:
Oracle Database - Enterprise Edition - Version 9.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.1 [Release 9.2 to 10.2]
Information in this document applies to any platform.
Symptoms
1) On startup the following errors occur:
==================================================================
ORA-16032: parameter LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST_2 destination string cannot be translated
ORA-09291: sksachk: invalid device specified for archive destination
OSD-04018: Unable to access the specified directory or device.
O/S-Error: (OS 3) The system cannot find the path specified.
==================================================================
Cause
A service should not directly access local or network resources through mapped drive letters.
Additionally, a service should not use the WNetXXXXXXX APIs to add, remove, or query any mapped
drive letters. Although the WNetXXXXXXX APIs may return successfully, the results will be
incorrect. A service (or any process that is running in a different security context) that must
access a remote resource should use the Universal Naming Convention (UNC) name to access the
resource.
 
http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;Q180362
Solution
On Windows XP and on Microsoft Windows Server 2003, each logon session receives its own set of
drive letters, A through Z. Therefore, redirected drives cannot be shared between processes that
are running under different user accounts. Additionally, a service (or any process that is running
in its own logon session) cannot access the drive letters that are established in a different
logon session. However, drive letters that are mapped from a service that is running under the
local System account are visible to all logon sessions.
 